1B

ASCII       -   American Standard Code for Information Interchange

Data:
Data is stored on a computer as binary digits/ bits.
1 bit = 0 or 1
5V = 1bit
0V = 0bit
light = 1bit
no light = 0bit
1 Byte = 8 bits

Functional units:
The primary memory is:
organized into words, normally 32 bits/ 8 bytes in size.
A PC memory might have 4GB/ 2^2*2^30 bytes or more.
Programs and their data must be in this memory to be executed.

Cache memory:
An adjunct to the main memory, fabricated on the processor chip.
Much smaller and faster than the main memory.
Holds sections of the program and data currently. frequently being executed.

Processor:
Logic circuits                          -   For performing arithmetic and logic operations on word-sized data operands.
Timing and control circuits             -   For fetching program instructions and data from memory.
Registers                               -   Holds one word of operand data.
Arithmetic and Logic Unit (ALU)         -   Most computer operations are executed in the ALU of the processor. It also performs arithmetic or logic operations.
Control Unit                            -   Memory, ALU, and I/ O units store and process information and perform I/ O operations. The Control Unit coordinates these operations.

Address space is addressed by means of internal memory "segmentation".

Computer:
1) Accepts information in the form of programs and data through an input unit and stores it in the memory.
2) Information stored in the memory is fetched under program control into an ALU, where it is processed
3) Processed information leaves the computer through an output unit.
4) All activities in the computer are directed by the control unit.

Instruction cycle:
A single cycle is also called the instruction cycle or machine cycle, consisting of Fetch, Decode, Execute, Memory Access, and Write Back phase.
1) Fetch instructions and increment the program counter.
2) Decode the instructions and read registers from the register file.
3) Read or write memory data if the instruction involves a memory operand.
4) Read or write memory data if the instruction involves a memory operand.
5) Write the result into the destination register, if needed.

Instructions and Programs:
1) An instruction specifies an operation and the location of its data operands.
2) A 32-bit word typically holds one encoded instruction.
3) A sequence of instructions, executed one after another,, constitutes a program.
4) Both a program and its data are stored in the main memory.

Instruction types:
Load            -   Read a data operand from memory or an input device into the processor.
Store           -   Write a data operand from a processor register to memory or an output device.
Operate         -   Perform an arithmetic or logic operation on data operands in processor registers.

Processor components:
Program Counter (PC)            -   Holds the memory address of the current instructions.
Instruction Register (IR)       -   Holds the current instruction.
General-Purpose Registers       -   Holds data and addresses.
Control Circuits and ALU        -   Fetch and executes instructions.

Fetching and Executing instructions:
1) Send address to memory; Read
2) Load instructions from memory into IR
3) Increment PC to point to next instruction
4) Send address LOC to memory; Read
5) Load word from memory into addresses register

PC: Program Counter
A Program Counter is a register in a computer processor that contains the location of the instruction being executed at the current time.
When an instruction is fetched, the program counter carries on to the next instruction queued.
When a computer restarts or resets, its Program Counter reverts to 0

I/O devices:
An application program:
Reads data      -   From an input device.
Writes data     -   To an output screen.
Senses          -   The readiness of an I/ O device in performing a transfer or data

Performance:
factors:
1) Speed of electronic circuits in the processor
2) Access times to the cache and main memory
3) Design of the instruction set
4) Number of operations that can be done at the same time (parallelism)
Better material of transistors = more transistors per chip = instructions executed faster
Multiple processing units can be fabricated on a single chip.
A core is used for each processor.
The term processor is used for a completed chip.